Server docs (#18)
Knotx/knotx-server-http: README.md

# Knot.x HTTP Server

> Server is essentially a "heart" of Knot.x. It's scalable (vertically and horizontally), 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server is essentially the "heart" of Knot.x. It's scalable (vertically and horizontally), 
```

> plugable (easy to extend), resilient to errors 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
plugable (easy to extend), fault-tolerant 
```

and highly efficient reactive server based on [Vert.x](https://vertx.io/).

> As every HTTP server, Knot.x HTTP Server enables defining routes it supports. Defining routes 

Reviewer: Like any HTTP server, the Knot.x HTTP server allows you to define supported routes.
```suggestion
Like any HTTP server, Knot.x HTTP Server allows you to define supported routes. Defining routes 
```

and security is done with [Open API 3](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification) standard.

> What Knot.x Server enables is plugging in custom behaviour for each supported route.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is what enables Knot.x Server, then you connect a custom behavior (business logic) for each supported route.
```

Reviewer 2: Rephrased

Each defined [`path`](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.md#pathItemObject)\

> is processed by the chain of [Handlers](https://vertx.io/docs/apidocs/io/vertx/core/Handler.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is processed by [Handlers](https://vertx.io/docs/apidocs/io/vertx/core/Handler.html)
```

Author: Rephrased

> that reacts on the request and are able to shape the response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that react on the request and are able to shape the response.
```

![server flow](misc/server-flow.png)

## Modules
You will find docs in the `README.md` files inside each of following modules:
- [Server API](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/tree/master/api) that defines contracts. 

> - [Server core](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/tree/master/core) that contains some smaller 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Server core](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/tree/master/core) that contains facile predefined 
```

handlers and HTTP Server implementation.
- [HTML Splitter](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/tree/master/splitter-html) handler 
responsible for extracting [`Fragments`](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragment-api) from the template

> - [Assembler](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/tree/master/assembler) handler combines all

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Assembler](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/tree/master/assembler) handler that combines all
```

processed [`Fragments`](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-fragment-api) into the response body.

## How does it work
Knot.x HTTP Server is a [verticle](http://vertx.io/docs/apidocs/io/vertx/core/Verticle.html)
that listens for HTTP requests. It is responsible for handling the whole HTTP traffic that goes to 
the Knot.x instance.

> Once the HTTP request from comes to the Server following actions are happening:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the HTTP request comes to the Server following actions are happening:
```

> - Server checks if there isn't too many concurrent requests. If the system is overloaded, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Server checks if there are not too many concurrent requests. If the system is overloaded, 
```

> [incoming request is dropped](#dropping-the-requests).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[the incoming request is dropped](#dropping-the-requests).
```

> - Server checks if there is [routing path](#routing-specification) defined for incoming request path

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Server checks whether a [routing path](#routing-specification) defined for the incoming request path
```

> and method. If no path supports this request, `404 Not Found` is returned in response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and method. If no path supports this request, `404 Not Found` is returned in the response.
```

> - Server checks if there is [routing operation](#routing-operations) defined for incoming request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Server checks whether a [routing operation](#routing-operations) has been defined for the incoming request.
```

> If there are no handlers defined in the operations for this route, `501 Not Implemented` is returned in response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If no handlers are defined in the operations for this route, `501 Not Implemented` is returned in the response.
```

- Handlers processing starts. In case of operation handler failure, [failure handlers](#handling-failures)
are triggered.

> - Handling is continued until any Handler end the response. If none does, `500 Internal Server Error`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Handling is continued until any Handler ends (completes) the response. If none does, `500 Internal Server Error`
```

is returned.

## How to configure

> To run Knot.x HTTP Server, simply add an entry in the [`modules` configuration](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-launcher#modules-configuration):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run Knot.x HTTP Server, just add the entry in the [`modules` configuration](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-launcher#modules-configuration):
```

```hocon
modules = {
  server = "io.knotx.server.KnotxServerVerticle"
}
```

> Details of the Knot.x HTTP Server can be configured with [`KnotxServerOptions`](/core/docs/asciidoc/dataobjects.adoc#knotxserveroptions):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Details of the Knot.x HTTP Server can be configured with [`KnotxServerOptions`](/core/docs/asciidoc/dataobjects.adoc#knotxserveroptions)
```

in the configuration file:
```hocon
config.server.options.config {

>   serverOptions {

Reviewer: Please remove `serverOptions` here, specify 

```
config.server.options.config {
}
```

Then add some comment:

More details about the module configuration can be found in [Knot.x Launcher](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-launcher#modules-configuration).

    port = 8080
  }
}
```

### Http Server Options

> HTTP Options can be configured with [Vert.x `HttpServerOptions`](http://vertx.io/docs/vertx-core/dataobjects.html#HttpServerOptions).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
HTTP options such as port, connection windows size, default version of ALPN (HTTP/2, HTTP/1) etc can be configured with Vert.x [`HttpServerOptions`](http://vertx.io/docs/vertx-core/dataobjects.html#HttpServerOptions).
```

> E.g. following configuration defines the port Server is listening at:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
E.g. the following configuration specifies the port Server is listening at:
```

```hocon
config.server.options.config {
  serverOptions {
    port = 8080
  }
}
```
#### Server Port Configuration 

> A HTTP server port can be also specified through system property `knotx.port` that takes 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Knot.x HTTP Server port can also be specified by the system property `knotx.port` that takes 
```

precedence over the value in the configuration file.
```
java -Dknotx.port=9999 ...
```

### Dropping the requests

> Knot.x Server implements a backpressure mechanism. It allows to drop requests after exceeding a 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knot.x Server implements the backpressure mechanism. It drops / rejects requests after exceeding a 
```

> certain amount of requests at a time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
certain number of requests at a time at once.
```

> If the the Server can't process incoming requests fast enough (requests buffer limit is reached), 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If Knot.x Server can NOT process incoming requests fast enough (the requests buffer limit has been reached), 
```

> Server drops requests and respond with configurable response code (by default `429, "Too Many Requests"`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server drops requests and responds with a configurable response code (by default `429, "Too Many Requests"`).
```

Dropping requests can be configured with [`DropRequestOptions`](core/docs/asciidoc/dataobjects.adoc#droprequestoptions)

> After the buffer slots will be released the new requests will start to be accepted and finally processed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the buffer slots are released, new requests will be accepted and finally processed.
```

> That solution prevent `OutOfMemoryError` errors when there are too many requests (e.g. during the peak hours). 
Additionally response times should be more stable when system is under high stress.

### Routing Specification
Knot.x Routing is defined with [Open API 3](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification) standard. 

> `routingSpecificationLocation` is a path to the Open API YAML specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`routingSpecificationLocation` is the path to the YAML Open API specification.
```

> It can be an absolute path, a local path or remote url (with HTTP protocol).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This can be an absolute path, a local path or a remote url (with HTTP).
```

```hocon
config.server.options.config {
  routingSpecificationLocation = /openapi.yaml
}
```

### Routing Operations

> A [`Routing Operation`](core/docs/asciidoc/dataobjects.adoc#routingoperationoptions) 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`Routing Operation`](core/docs/asciidoc/dataobjects.adoc#routingoperationoptions) 
```

> define handlers and failure handlers taking part in HTTP request processing of a particular 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
defines handlers and failure handlers involved in the processing of HTTP request for a specific
```

[operation](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.md#operationObject)
defined in the [Routing Specification](#routing-specification) (linking is done
by `operationId`):

> Open Api YAML config:
```yaml
...
paths:
  /example*:
    get:
      operationId: my-example-operation
...
```
> Routing Operations entry in Knot.x conf
```hocon
config.server.options.configroutingOperations = ${routingOperations} [
  {
    operationId = my-example-operation
    handlers = [
      # list of handlers that handles the request in chain
    ]
    failureHandlers = [
      # list of failure handlers
    ]
  }
]
```

### Routing Security

> Security for each operation defined in [operation security requirement](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.md#security-requirement-object)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Security for each operation defined in the [Open API specification](https://github.com/OAI/OpenAPI-Specification/blob/master/versions/3.0.2.md#security-requirement-object)
```

> is implemented in a form of [`AuthHandlers`](https://vertx.io/docs/apidocs/io/vertx/ext/web/handler/AuthHandler.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is implemented in the form of [`AuthHandlers`](https://vertx.io/docs/apidocs/io/vertx/ext/web/handler/AuthHandler.html).
```

> In order to introduce security to operation you need to implement [`AuthHandlerFactory`](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/api/src/main/java/io/knotx/server/api/security/AuthHandlerFactory.java)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add security for the operation, you need to implement [`AuthHandlerFactory`](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/api/src/main/java/io/knotx/server/api/security/AuthHandlerFactory.java)
```

that provides `AuthHandler` of a proper type.

#### Example security setup
> Open Api YAML config:
```yaml
...
paths:
  /example*:
    get:
      operationId: my-example-operation
      security:
          - myExampleBasicAuth: []
...
components:
  securitySchemes:
    myExampleBasicAuth:
      type: http
      scheme: basic
```

> Routing Operations entry in Knot.x conf
```hocon
config.server.options.config.securityHandlers = [
  {
    schema = myExampleBasicAuth
    factory = myBasicAuthHandlerFactory
    config = {
      # any config passed to the AuthHandler
    }
  }
]
```

> Needs implementation of [`AuthHandlerFactory`](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/api/src/main/java/io/knotx/server/api/security/AuthHandlerFactory.java)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`AuthHandlerFactory`](https://github.com/Knotx/knotx-server-http/blob/master/api/src/main/java/io/knotx/server/api/security/AuthHandlerFactory.java) implementation requirements details:
```
